site/content/docs/main/config/request-routing.md, before:

# Request Routing

A HTTPProxy object must have at least one route or include defined.
In this example, any requests to `multi-path.bar.com/blog` or `multi-path.bar.com/blog/*` will be routed to the Service `s2` using the prefix conditions. Requests to `multi-path.bar.com/feed` will be routed to Service `s2` using exact match condition.
All other requests to the host `multi-path.bar.com` will be routed to the Service `s1`.

```yaml
# httpproxy-multiple-paths.yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: multiple-paths
  namespace: default
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: multi-path.bar.com
  routes:
    - conditions:
      - prefix: / # matches everything else
      services:
        - name: s1
          port: 80
    - conditions:
      - prefix: /blog # matches `multi-path.bar.com/blog` or `multi-path.bar.com/blog/*`
      services:
        - name: s2
          port: 80
    - conditions:
      - exact: /feed # matches `multi-path.bar.com/feed` only
      services:
        - name: s2
          port: 80
```

In the following example, we match on headers and query parameters and send to different services, with a default route if those do not match.

```yaml
# httpproxy-multiple-headers.yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: multiple-paths
  namespace: default
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: multi-path.bar.com
  routes:
    - conditions:
      - header:
          name: x-os
          contains: ios
      services:
        - name: s1
          port: 80
    - conditions:
      - header:
          name: x-os
          contains: android
      services:
        - name: s2
          port: 80
    - conditions:
      - queryParameter:
          name: os
          exact: other
          ignoreCase: true
      services:
        - name: s3
          port: 80
    - services:
        - name: s4
          port: 80
```

## Conditions

Each Route entry in a HTTPProxy **may** contain one or more conditions.
These conditions are combined with an AND operator on the route passed to Envoy.
Conditions can be either a `prefix`, `exact`, `header` or a `queryParameter` condition. `prefix` and `exact`
conditions cannot be used together in one condition block.

#### Prefix conditions

Paths defined are matched using prefix conditions.
Up to one prefix condition may be present in any condition block.

Prefix conditions **must** start with a `/` if they are present.

#### Exact conditions

Paths defined are matched using exact conditions.
Up to one exact condition may be present in any condition block. Any condition block can
either have an exact condition or prefix condition, but not both together. Exact conditions are
not allowed in root httpproxies or in includes blocks.

Exact conditions **must** start with a `/` if they are present.

#### Header conditions

For `header` conditions there is one required field, `name`, and six operator fields: `present`, `notpresent`, `contains`, `notcontains`, `exact`, and `notexact`.

- `present` is a boolean and checks that the header is present. The value will not be checked.

- `notpresent` similarly checks that the header is *not* present.

- `contains` is a string, and checks that the header contains the string. `notcontains` similarly checks that the header does *not* contain the string.

- `exact` is a string, and checks that the header exactly matches the whole string. `notexact` checks that the header does *not* exactly match the whole string.

#### Query parameter conditions

Similar to the `header` conditions, `queryParameter` conditions also require the
`name` field to be specified, which represents the name of the query parameter
e.g. `search` when the query string looks like `/?search=term` and `term`
representing the value.

There are six operator fields: `exact`, `prefix`, `suffix`, `regex`, `contains`
and `present` and a modifier `ignoreCase` which can be used together with all of
the operator fields except `regex` and `present`.

- `exact` is a string, and checks that the query parameter value exactly matches
  the whole string.

- `prefix` is a string, and checks that the query parameter value is prefixed by
  the given value.

- `suffix` is a string, and checks that the query parameter value is suffixed by
  the given value.

- `regex` is a string representing a regular expression, and checks that the
  query parameter value matches against the given regular expression.

- `contains` is a string, and checks that the query parameter value contains
  the given string.

- `present` is a boolean, and checks that the query parameter is present. The
  value will not be checked.

- `ignoreCase` is a boolean, and if set to `true` it will enable case
  insensitive matching for any of the string operator matching methods.

## Request Redirection

HTTP redirects can be implemented in HTTPProxy using `requestRedirectPolicy` on a route.
In the following basic example, requests to `example.com` are redirected to `www.example.com`.
We configure a root HTTPProxy for `example.com` that contains redirect configuration.
We also configure a root HTTPProxy for `www.example.com` that represents the destination of the redirect.

```yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: example-com
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: example.com
  routes:
    - conditions:
      - prefix: /
      requestRedirectPolicy:
        hostname: www.example.com
```

```yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: www-example-com
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: www.example.com
  routes:
    - conditions:
      - prefix: /
      services:
        - name: s1
          port: 80
```

In addition to specifying the hostname to set in the `location` header, the scheme, port, and returned status code of the redirect response can be configured.
Configuration of the path or a path prefix replacement to modify the path of the returned `location` can be included as well.
See [the API specification][3] for more detail.

## Multiple Upstreams

One of the key HTTPProxy features is the ability to support multiple services for a given path:

```yaml
# httpproxy-multiple-upstreams.yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: multiple-upstreams
  namespace: default
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: multi.bar.com
  routes:
    - services:
        - name: s1
          port: 80
        - name: s2
          port: 80
```

In this example, requests for `multi.bar.com/` will be load balanced across two Kubernetes Services, `s1`, and `s2`.
This is helpful when you need to split traffic for a given URL across two different versions of an application.

### Upstream Weighting

Building on multiple upstreams is the ability to define relative weights for upstream Services.
This is commonly used for canary testing of new versions of an application when you want to send a small fraction of traffic to a specific Service.

```yaml
# httpproxy-weight-shifting.yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: weight-shifting
  namespace: default
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: weights.bar.com
  routes:
    - services:
        - name: s1
          port: 80
          weight: 10
        - name: s2
          port: 80
          weight: 90
```

In this example, we are sending 10% of the traffic to Service `s1`, while Service `s2` receives the remaining 90% of traffic.

HTTPProxy weighting follows some specific rules:

- If no weights are specified for a given route, it's assumed even distribution across the Services.
- Weights are relative and do not need to add up to 100. If all weights for a route are specified, then the "total" weight is the sum of those specified. As an example, if weights are 20, 30, 20 for three upstreams, the total weight would be 70. In this example, a weight of 30 would receive approximately 42.9% of traffic (30/70 = .4285).
- If some weights are specified but others are not, then it's assumed that upstreams without weights have an implicit weight of zero, and thus will not receive traffic.

### Traffic mirroring

Per route,  a service can be nominated as a mirror.
The mirror service will receive a copy of the read traffic sent to any non mirror service.
The mirror traffic is considered _read only_, any response by the mirror will be discarded.

This service can be useful for recording traffic for later replay or for smoke testing new deployments.

```yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: traffic-mirror
  namespace: default
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: www.example.com
  routes:
    - conditions:
      - prefix: /
      services:
        - name: www
          port: 80
        - name: www-mirror
          port: 80
          mirror: true
```

## Response Timeouts

Each Route can be configured to have a timeout policy and a retry policy as shown:

```yaml
# httpproxy-response-timeout.yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: response-timeout
  namespace: default
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: timeout.bar.com
  routes:
  - timeoutPolicy:
      response: 1s
      idle: 10s
      idleConnection: 60s
    retryPolicy:
      count: 3
      perTryTimeout: 150ms
    services:
    - name: s1
      port: 80
```

In this example, requests to `timeout.bar.com/` will have a response timeout policy of 1s.
This refers to the time that spans between the point at which complete client request has been processed by the proxy, and when the response from the server has been completely processed.

- `timeoutPolicy.response` Timeout for receiving a response from the server after processing a request from client.
If not supplied, Envoy's default value of 15s applies.
More information can be found in [Envoy's documentation][4].
- `timeoutPolicy.idle` Timeout for how long the proxy should wait while there is no activity during single request/response (for HTTP/1.1) or stream (for HTTP/2).
Timeout will not trigger while HTTP/1.1 connection is idle between two consecutive requests.
If not specified, there is no per-route idle timeout, though a connection manager-wide stream idle timeout default of 5m still applies.
More information can be found in [Envoy's documentation][6].
- `timeoutPolicy.idleConnection` Timeout for how long connection from the proxy to the upstream service is kept when there are no active requests.
If not supplied, Envoy’s default value of 1h applies.
More information can be found in [Envoy's documentation][8].

TimeoutPolicy durations are expressed in the Go [Duration format][5].
Valid time units are "ns", "us" (or "µs"), "ms", "s", "m", "h".
The string "infinity" is also a valid input and specifies no timeout.
A value of "0s" will be treated as if the field were not set, i.e. by using Envoy's default behavior.
Example input values: "300ms", "5s", "1m".

- `retryPolicy`: A retry will be attempted if the server returns an error code in the 5xx range, or if the server takes more than `retryPolicy.perTryTimeout` to process a request.

- `retryPolicy.count` specifies the maximum number of retries allowed. This parameter is optional and defaults to 1. Set to -1 to disable. If set to 0, the Envoy default of 1 is used.

- `retryPolicy.perTryTimeout` specifies the timeout per retry. If this field is greater than the request timeout, it is ignored. This parameter is optional.
  If left unspecified, `timeoutPolicy.request` will be used.

## Load Balancing Strategy

Each route can have a load balancing strategy applied to determine which of its Endpoints is selected for the request.
The following list are the options available to choose from:

- `RoundRobin`: Each healthy upstream Endpoint is selected in round-robin order (Default strategy if none selected).
- `WeightedLeastRequest`:  The least request load balancer uses different algorithms depending on whether hosts have the same or different weights in an attempt to route traffic based upon the number of active requests or the load at the time of selection. 
- `Random`: The random strategy selects a random healthy Endpoints.
- `RequestHash`: The request hashing strategy allows for load balancing based on request attributes. An upstream Endpoint is selected based on the hash of an element of a request. For example, requests that contain a consistent value in an HTTP request header will be routed to the same upstream Endpoint. Currently, only hashing of HTTP request headers, query parameters and the source IP of a request is supported.
- `Cookie`: The cookie load balancing strategy is similar to the request hash strategy and is a convenience feature to implement session affinity, as described below.

More information on the load balancing strategy can be found in [Envoy's documentation][7].

The following example defines the strategy for the route `/` as `WeightedLeastRequest`.

```yaml
# httpproxy-lb-strategy.yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: lb-strategy
  namespace: default
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: strategy.bar.com
  routes:
    - conditions:
      - prefix: /
      services:
        - name: s1-strategy
          port: 80
        - name: s2-strategy
          port: 80
      loadBalancerPolicy:
        strategy: WeightedLeastRequest
```

The below example demonstrates how request hash load balancing policies can be configured:

Request hash headers
```yaml
# httpproxy-lb-request-hash.yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: lb-request-hash
  namespace: default
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: request-hash.bar.com
  routes:
  - conditions:
    - prefix: /
    services:
    - name: httpbin
      port: 8080
    loadBalancerPolicy:
      strategy: RequestHash
      requestHashPolicies:
      - headerHashOptions:
          headerName: X-Some-Header
        terminal: true
      - headerHashOptions:
          headerName: User-Agent
      - hashSourceIP: true
```
In this example, if a client request contains the `X-Some-Header` header, the value of the header will be hashed and used to route to an upstream Endpoint. This could be used to implement a similar workflow to cookie-based session affinity by passing a consistent value for this header. If it is present, because it is set as a `terminal` hash option, Envoy will not continue on to process to `User-Agent` header or source IP to calculate a hash. If `X-Some-Header` is not present, Envoy will use the `User-Agent` header value to make a routing decision along with the source IP of the client making the request. These policies can be used alone or as shown for an advanced routing decision.


Request hash source ip
```yaml
# httpproxy-lb-request-hash-ip.yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: lb-request-hash 
  namespace: default
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: request-hash.bar.com
  routes:
  - conditions:
    - prefix: /
    services:
    - name: httpbin
      port: 8080
    loadBalancerPolicy:
      strategy: RequestHash
      requestHashPolicies:
      - hashSourceIP: true
```

Request hash query parameters
```yaml
# httpproxy-lb-request-hash.yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: lb-request-hash 
  namespace: default
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: request-hash.bar.com
  routes:
  - conditions:
    - prefix: /
    services:
    - name: httpbin
      port: 8080
    loadBalancerPolicy:
      strategy: RequestHash
      requestHashPolicies:
      - queryParameterHashOptions:
          prameterName: param1
        terminal: true
      - queryParameterHashOptions:
          parameterName: param2
```

## Session Affinity

Session affinity, also known as _sticky sessions_, is a load balancing strategy whereby a sequence of requests from a single client are consistently routed to the same application backend.
Contour supports session affinity on a per-route basis with `loadBalancerPolicy` `strategy: Cookie`.

```yaml
# httpproxy-sticky-sessions.yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: httpbin
  namespace: default
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: httpbin.davecheney.com
  routes:
  - services:
    - name: httpbin
      port: 8080
    loadBalancerPolicy:
      strategy: Cookie
```

Session affinity is based on the premise that the backend servers are robust, do not change ordering, or grow and shrink according to load.
None of these properties are guaranteed by a Kubernetes cluster and will be visible to applications that rely heavily on session affinity.

Any perturbation in the set of pods backing a service risks redistributing backends around the hash ring.

[3]: /docs/{{< param version >}}/config/api/#projectcontour.io/v1.HTTPRequestRedirectPolicy
[4]: https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/config/route/v3/route_components.proto#envoy-v3-api-field-config-route-v3-routeaction-timeout
[5]: https://godoc.org/time#ParseDuration
[6]: https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/config/route/v3/route_components.proto#envoy-v3-api-field-config-route-v3-routeaction-idle-timeout
[7]: https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/intro/arch_overview/upstream/load_balancing/overview
[8]: https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/config/core/v3/protocol.proto#envoy-v3-api-field-config-core-v3-httpprotocoloptions-idle-timeout

Commit message:

site/content/docs: Improve docs for exact path match condition
Signed-off-by: Arjun Salyan <iarjunsalyan@gmail.com>

site/content/docs/main/config/request-routing.md, after:

# Request Routing

A HTTPProxy object must have at least one route or include defined.
In this example, any requests to `multi-path.bar.com/blog` or `multi-path.bar.com/blog/*` will be routed to the Service `s2` using the prefix conditions. Requests to `multi-path.bar.com/feed` will be routed to Service `s2` using exact match condition.
All other requests to the host `multi-path.bar.com` will be routed to the Service `s1`.

```yaml
# httpproxy-multiple-paths.yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: multiple-paths
  namespace: default
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: multi-path.bar.com
  routes:
    - conditions:
      - prefix: / # matches everything else
      services:
        - name: s1
          port: 80
    - conditions:
      - prefix: /blog # matches `multi-path.bar.com/blog` or `multi-path.bar.com/blog/*`
      services:
        - name: s2
          port: 80
    - conditions:
      - exact: /feed # matches `multi-path.bar.com/feed` only
      services:
        - name: s2
          port: 80
```

In the following example, we match on headers and query parameters and send to different services, with a default route if those do not match.

```yaml
# httpproxy-multiple-headers.yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: multiple-paths
  namespace: default
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: multi-path.bar.com
  routes:
    - conditions:
      - header:
          name: x-os
          contains: ios
      services:
        - name: s1
          port: 80
    - conditions:
      - header:
          name: x-os
          contains: android
      services:
        - name: s2
          port: 80
    - conditions:
      - queryParameter:
          name: os
          exact: other
          ignoreCase: true
      services:
        - name: s3
          port: 80
    - services:
        - name: s4
          port: 80
```

## Conditions

Each Route entry in a HTTPProxy **may** contain one or more conditions.
These conditions are combined with an AND operator on the route passed to Envoy.
Conditions can be either a `prefix`, `exact`, `header` or a `queryParameter` condition. `prefix` and `exact`
conditions cannot be used together in one condition block.

#### Prefix conditions

Paths defined are matched using prefix conditions.
Up to one prefix condition may be present in any condition block.

Prefix conditions **must** start with a `/` if they are present.

#### Exact conditions

Paths defined are matched using exact conditions.
Up to one exact condition may be present in any condition block. Any condition block can
either have an exact condition or prefix condition, but not both together. Exact conditions are
only allowed in route match conditions and not in include match conditions.

Exact conditions **must** start with a `/` if they are present.

#### Header conditions

For `header` conditions there is one required field, `name`, and six operator fields: `present`, `notpresent`, `contains`, `notcontains`, `exact`, and `notexact`.

- `present` is a boolean and checks that the header is present. The value will not be checked.

- `notpresent` similarly checks that the header is *not* present.

- `contains` is a string, and checks that the header contains the string. `notcontains` similarly checks that the header does *not* contain the string.

- `exact` is a string, and checks that the header exactly matches the whole string. `notexact` checks that the header does *not* exactly match the whole string.

#### Query parameter conditions

Similar to the `header` conditions, `queryParameter` conditions also require the
`name` field to be specified, which represents the name of the query parameter
e.g. `search` when the query string looks like `/?search=term` and `term`
representing the value.

There are six operator fields: `exact`, `prefix`, `suffix`, `regex`, `contains`
and `present` and a modifier `ignoreCase` which can be used together with all of
the operator fields except `regex` and `present`.

- `exact` is a string, and checks that the query parameter value exactly matches
  the whole string.

- `prefix` is a string, and checks that the query parameter value is prefixed by
  the given value.

- `suffix` is a string, and checks that the query parameter value is suffixed by
  the given value.

- `regex` is a string representing a regular expression, and checks that the
  query parameter value matches against the given regular expression.

- `contains` is a string, and checks that the query parameter value contains
  the given string.

- `present` is a boolean, and checks that the query parameter is present. The
  value will not be checked.

- `ignoreCase` is a boolean, and if set to `true` it will enable case
  insensitive matching for any of the string operator matching methods.

## Request Redirection

HTTP redirects can be implemented in HTTPProxy using `requestRedirectPolicy` on a route.
In the following basic example, requests to `example.com` are redirected to `www.example.com`.
We configure a root HTTPProxy for `example.com` that contains redirect configuration.
We also configure a root HTTPProxy for `www.example.com` that represents the destination of the redirect.

```yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: example-com
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: example.com
  routes:
    - conditions:
      - prefix: /
      requestRedirectPolicy:
        hostname: www.example.com
```

```yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: www-example-com
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: www.example.com
  routes:
    - conditions:
      - prefix: /
      services:
        - name: s1
          port: 80
```

In addition to specifying the hostname to set in the `location` header, the scheme, port, and returned status code of the redirect response can be configured.
Configuration of the path or a path prefix replacement to modify the path of the returned `location` can be included as well.
See [the API specification][3] for more detail.

## Multiple Upstreams

One of the key HTTPProxy features is the ability to support multiple services for a given path:

```yaml
# httpproxy-multiple-upstreams.yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: multiple-upstreams
  namespace: default
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: multi.bar.com
  routes:
    - services:
        - name: s1
          port: 80
        - name: s2
          port: 80
```

In this example, requests for `multi.bar.com/` will be load balanced across two Kubernetes Services, `s1`, and `s2`.
This is helpful when you need to split traffic for a given URL across two different versions of an application.

### Upstream Weighting

Building on multiple upstreams is the ability to define relative weights for upstream Services.
This is commonly used for canary testing of new versions of an application when you want to send a small fraction of traffic to a specific Service.

```yaml
# httpproxy-weight-shifting.yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: weight-shifting
  namespace: default
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: weights.bar.com
  routes:
    - services:
        - name: s1
          port: 80
          weight: 10
        - name: s2
          port: 80
          weight: 90
```

In this example, we are sending 10% of the traffic to Service `s1`, while Service `s2` receives the remaining 90% of traffic.

HTTPProxy weighting follows some specific rules:

- If no weights are specified for a given route, it's assumed even distribution across the Services.
- Weights are relative and do not need to add up to 100. If all weights for a route are specified, then the "total" weight is the sum of those specified. As an example, if weights are 20, 30, 20 for three upstreams, the total weight would be 70. In this example, a weight of 30 would receive approximately 42.9% of traffic (30/70 = .4285).
- If some weights are specified but others are not, then it's assumed that upstreams without weights have an implicit weight of zero, and thus will not receive traffic.

### Traffic mirroring

Per route,  a service can be nominated as a mirror.
The mirror service will receive a copy of the read traffic sent to any non mirror service.
The mirror traffic is considered _read only_, any response by the mirror will be discarded.

This service can be useful for recording traffic for later replay or for smoke testing new deployments.

```yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: traffic-mirror
  namespace: default
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: www.example.com
  routes:
    - conditions:
      - prefix: /
      services:
        - name: www
          port: 80
        - name: www-mirror
          port: 80
          mirror: true
```

## Response Timeouts

Each Route can be configured to have a timeout policy and a retry policy as shown:

```yaml
# httpproxy-response-timeout.yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: response-timeout
  namespace: default
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: timeout.bar.com
  routes:
  - timeoutPolicy:
      response: 1s
      idle: 10s
      idleConnection: 60s
    retryPolicy:
      count: 3
      perTryTimeout: 150ms
    services:
    - name: s1
      port: 80
```

In this example, requests to `timeout.bar.com/` will have a response timeout policy of 1s.
This refers to the time that spans between the point at which complete client request has been processed by the proxy, and when the response from the server has been completely processed.

- `timeoutPolicy.response` Timeout for receiving a response from the server after processing a request from client.
If not supplied, Envoy's default value of 15s applies.
More information can be found in [Envoy's documentation][4].
- `timeoutPolicy.idle` Timeout for how long the proxy should wait while there is no activity during single request/response (for HTTP/1.1) or stream (for HTTP/2).
Timeout will not trigger while HTTP/1.1 connection is idle between two consecutive requests.
If not specified, there is no per-route idle timeout, though a connection manager-wide stream idle timeout default of 5m still applies.
More information can be found in [Envoy's documentation][6].
- `timeoutPolicy.idleConnection` Timeout for how long connection from the proxy to the upstream service is kept when there are no active requests.
If not supplied, Envoy’s default value of 1h applies.
More information can be found in [Envoy's documentation][8].

TimeoutPolicy durations are expressed in the Go [Duration format][5].
Valid time units are "ns", "us" (or "µs"), "ms", "s", "m", "h".
The string "infinity" is also a valid input and specifies no timeout.
A value of "0s" will be treated as if the field were not set, i.e. by using Envoy's default behavior.
Example input values: "300ms", "5s", "1m".

- `retryPolicy`: A retry will be attempted if the server returns an error code in the 5xx range, or if the server takes more than `retryPolicy.perTryTimeout` to process a request.

- `retryPolicy.count` specifies the maximum number of retries allowed. This parameter is optional and defaults to 1. Set to -1 to disable. If set to 0, the Envoy default of 1 is used.

- `retryPolicy.perTryTimeout` specifies the timeout per retry. If this field is greater than the request timeout, it is ignored. This parameter is optional.
  If left unspecified, `timeoutPolicy.request` will be used.

## Load Balancing Strategy

Each route can have a load balancing strategy applied to determine which of its Endpoints is selected for the request.
The following list are the options available to choose from:

- `RoundRobin`: Each healthy upstream Endpoint is selected in round-robin order (Default strategy if none selected).
- `WeightedLeastRequest`:  The least request load balancer uses different algorithms depending on whether hosts have the same or different weights in an attempt to route traffic based upon the number of active requests or the load at the time of selection. 
- `Random`: The random strategy selects a random healthy Endpoints.
- `RequestHash`: The request hashing strategy allows for load balancing based on request attributes. An upstream Endpoint is selected based on the hash of an element of a request. For example, requests that contain a consistent value in an HTTP request header will be routed to the same upstream Endpoint. Currently, only hashing of HTTP request headers, query parameters and the source IP of a request is supported.
- `Cookie`: The cookie load balancing strategy is similar to the request hash strategy and is a convenience feature to implement session affinity, as described below.

More information on the load balancing strategy can be found in [Envoy's documentation][7].

The following example defines the strategy for the route `/` as `WeightedLeastRequest`.

```yaml
# httpproxy-lb-strategy.yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: lb-strategy
  namespace: default
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: strategy.bar.com
  routes:
    - conditions:
      - prefix: /
      services:
        - name: s1-strategy
          port: 80
        - name: s2-strategy
          port: 80
      loadBalancerPolicy:
        strategy: WeightedLeastRequest
```

The below example demonstrates how request hash load balancing policies can be configured:

Request hash headers
```yaml
# httpproxy-lb-request-hash.yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: lb-request-hash
  namespace: default
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: request-hash.bar.com
  routes:
  - conditions:
    - prefix: /
    services:
    - name: httpbin
      port: 8080
    loadBalancerPolicy:
      strategy: RequestHash
      requestHashPolicies:
      - headerHashOptions:
          headerName: X-Some-Header
        terminal: true
      - headerHashOptions:
          headerName: User-Agent
      - hashSourceIP: true
```
In this example, if a client request contains the `X-Some-Header` header, the value of the header will be hashed and used to route to an upstream Endpoint. This could be used to implement a similar workflow to cookie-based session affinity by passing a consistent value for this header. If it is present, because it is set as a `terminal` hash option, Envoy will not continue on to process to `User-Agent` header or source IP to calculate a hash. If `X-Some-Header` is not present, Envoy will use the `User-Agent` header value to make a routing decision along with the source IP of the client making the request. These policies can be used alone or as shown for an advanced routing decision.


Request hash source ip
```yaml
# httpproxy-lb-request-hash-ip.yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: lb-request-hash 
  namespace: default
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: request-hash.bar.com
  routes:
  - conditions:
    - prefix: /
    services:
    - name: httpbin
      port: 8080
    loadBalancerPolicy:
      strategy: RequestHash
      requestHashPolicies:
      - hashSourceIP: true
```

Request hash query parameters
```yaml
# httpproxy-lb-request-hash.yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: lb-request-hash 
  namespace: default
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: request-hash.bar.com
  routes:
  - conditions:
    - prefix: /
    services:
    - name: httpbin
      port: 8080
    loadBalancerPolicy:
      strategy: RequestHash
      requestHashPolicies:
      - queryParameterHashOptions:
          prameterName: param1
        terminal: true
      - queryParameterHashOptions:
          parameterName: param2
```

## Session Affinity

Session affinity, also known as _sticky sessions_, is a load balancing strategy whereby a sequence of requests from a single client are consistently routed to the same application backend.
Contour supports session affinity on a per-route basis with `loadBalancerPolicy` `strategy: Cookie`.

```yaml
# httpproxy-sticky-sessions.yaml
apiVersion: projectcontour.io/v1
kind: HTTPProxy
metadata:
  name: httpbin
  namespace: default
spec:
  virtualhost:
    fqdn: httpbin.davecheney.com
  routes:
  - services:
    - name: httpbin
      port: 8080
    loadBalancerPolicy:
      strategy: Cookie
```

Session affinity is based on the premise that the backend servers are robust, do not change ordering, or grow and shrink according to load.
None of these properties are guaranteed by a Kubernetes cluster and will be visible to applications that rely heavily on session affinity.

Any perturbation in the set of pods backing a service risks redistributing backends around the hash ring.

[3]: /docs/{{< param version >}}/config/api/#projectcontour.io/v1.HTTPRequestRedirectPolicy
[4]: https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/config/route/v3/route_components.proto#envoy-v3-api-field-config-route-v3-routeaction-timeout
[5]: https://godoc.org/time#ParseDuration
[6]: https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/config/route/v3/route_components.proto#envoy-v3-api-field-config-route-v3-routeaction-idle-timeout
[7]: https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/intro/arch_overview/upstream/load_balancing/overview
[8]: https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/config/core/v3/protocol.proto#envoy-v3-api-field-config-core-v3-httpprotocoloptions-idle-timeout
